The last thing we need to do is show
the ‘A’ transitions out of States 0, 1, and 2.
Let’s take another step back from our automaton
and think about it logically.
We have any number of ‘B’s in a row,
and then we get an ‘A’.
That breaks our row of ‘B’s,
and we go back to having zero ‘B’s in a row.
Now back to our automaton.
We have zero, one or two ‘B’s in a row,
and then we get an ‘A’.
We just decided that we go back
to the beginning, so let’s do it.
Our ‘A’ transitions are from
0 to 0, 1 to 0, and 2 to 0.
So, have we finished?
Let’s check.
State 0 has an ‘A’ transition and a ‘B’ transition.
State 1 has an ‘A’ transition and a ‘B’ transition.
State 2 has an ‘A’ transition and a ‘B’ transition.
And State 3 has an ‘A’ transition and a ‘B’ transition.
We have our start state: ‘0’,
and we have our accepting states: ‘0’, ‘1’ and ‘2’.
Awesome! All we have to do now is make sure it works.
I’ll leave you to run through it with a few test cases.
If you’re watching on YouTube then leave us a comment,
let us know how you go or if you have
any feedback on this series of videos.
And for more information and examples,
check out the Computer Science Field Guide.
Follow the link in the description below
and navigate to chapter 14: Formal Languages.
Thanks for watching!